# Iowa Liquor Analytics Project

## Project Tasks Status: 

### Data Preparation
- [x] Separate Incorrect/Missing Yearly Data from Correct Yearly Data
- [x] Data cleaning of incorrect data
- [x] Merge newly cleaned data with original cleaned data
- [x] Separate remaining data into csv for later cleaning
- [x] Prepare Yearly Iowa County Population Data for per capita consumption anaylsis
- [ ] Improve markdown clarity
- [ ] retesting measures

### SQL Database
- [x] Establish connection between Linux environment and local MySQL Desktop
- [x] Import Data into MySQL Database using batch processing
- [x] Extract data subsets as .txt files to for dashboard building in Tableau

### Dashboard Building
- [ ] County Per Capita Consumption Visualization Completed
- [ ] Other visualizations to be determined
- [ ] Publish Dashboards

## Table of Contents

1. [Project Description](#project-description)
2. [Example Visualizations](#visuals)
3. [Other Data Links](#links)

<a name="project-description"></a>
## Project Description

The goal of this project was to clean and analyze a large publicly available dataset using techniques in Python, SQL, and Tableau. For this endeavor, I chose the [Sales Data from Iowa Class “E” liquor licensees](https://data.iowa.gov/Sales-Distribution/Iowa-Liquor-Sales/m3tr-qhgy/about_data) dataset from data.iowa.gov, which details all the liquor sales in Iowa from January 2012 through the end of September 2023, since I downloaded this data in early November of 2023. 

This dataset was very large at 27489743 values. Upon downloading the data, over 20% of the rows had missing values. Compounding this issue was a large number of rows with mismatched and incorrect data types.Thus, cleaning the data was a massive undertaking. It soon became apparent that cleaning 100% of this data was not going to be possible given time constraints and my sanity as many errors were very granular in nature. After an intensive effort, I was able to reduce the number of missing values down to only 1.03% of the original data. However, some simplifying allowances were used to fill in some of the missing geodata. It is possible that a very tiny fraction of the data will have geodata that is slightly off from from the listed address. In such cases, however, the row address will share the same city, zip code, and county as the geo-point used to fill in said data. Again, I emphasize that achieving perfection here was not possible due to time constraints. However, given this allowance, I advise slight caution when using the data generated by this process to conduct analysis at the neighborhood level. My process is outlined in detail in the noteboks in the data folder.




<a name="visuals"></a>
## Visualizations

Example dashboard images will be added here. 

<a name="links"></a>
## Other Data Links

1. [Iowa County Population Data](https://data.iowa.gov/Community-Demographics/County-Population-in-Iowa-by-Year/qtnr-zsrc/explore/query/SELECT%0A%20%20%60fips%60%2C%0A%20%20%60geographicname%60%2C%0A%20%20%60year%60%2C%0A%20%20%60population%60%2C%0A%20%20%60primary_point%60%2C%0A%20%20%60%3A%40computed_region_hhz5_dst4%60%2C%0A%20%20%60%3A%40computed_region_y683_txed%60%2C%0A%20%20%60%3A%40computed_region_g8ff_h7ce%60/page/filter)
2. [Iowa Populated Places](https://geodata.iowa.gov/datasets/iowa-populated-places/explore)
3. [Active and Inactive Iowa Liquor Stores](https://data.iowa.gov/Regulation/Iowa-Liquor-Stores/ykb6-ywnd/about_data)
